# Optimus Climas
This repository contains the code for running the climate model Optimus Climas using Deep Learning techniques. We aim to optimise climate simulations with deep learning regarding regionalisation and consideration of tipping points such as the collapse of boreal permafrost and the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. We employ state-of-the-art deep learning methods, including modified vision transformers and modified gramian angular fields. Here we provide documentation on installation, setup, and a quickstart guide to reproduce our experiments and to use our GUI.
## Getting started
To set up the needed environment for Optimus Climas, we use ```python>=3.11```. To create the environment use ```KlimaUi/requirements.txt```.
All our models and datasets needed for the GUI are hosted on [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/collections/OptimusClimas/files-for-gui-678192abaf887f31d684639e). First create an empty folder named ```models``` in ```KlimaUi/climatesimulationAI``` and in ```KlimaUi/KlimaUi/climatesimulationAI``` and an empty folder named ```trainingdata``` in ```KlimaUi/climatesimulationAI/Training/PreProcessing``` and in ```KlimaUi/KlimaUi/climatesimulationAI/Training/PreProcessing```.Please download the [models](https://huggingface.co/OptimusClimas/models) and put them in ```KlimaUi/climatesimulationAI/models``` and in ```KlimaUi/KlimaUi/climatesimulationAI```. Please download the dataset [trainingdata](https://huggingface.co/datasets/OptimusClimas/trainingdata) and put them in ```KlimaUi/climatesimulationAI/Training/PreProcessing/trainingdata``` and in ```KlimaUi/KlimaUi/climatesimulationAI/Training/PreProcessing```. Please set the working directory to ```YOURLOCALPATH\KlimaUi```.

To use the Graphical User Interface of Optimus Climas start ```KlimaUi/ui_OptimusKlimasEntry.py```. 
To reproduce the figures in our publication see figures.ipynb.
To run your own experiments see manualuse.ipynb.

## Attention
There are also options for negative emission scenarios, meaning scenarios were the emission increase is negative and therefore the emissions are decreasing, in Optimus Climas. For these negative emission scenarios different models are used, which are not as optimized as those for the positive emission scenarios. Also the simulation is not designed to simulate negative emission scenarios while considering tipping points because tipping points are only going to be triggerd in this model if a certain emission increase is reached. If you try to start a simulation of a negative emission scenario while considering tipping points there will be an error and the simulation won't proceed.
